>> Shirley Wu: So let's get started.
So, we will start with the selection and
data.
I will start with this piece of code.
And all this piece of code does is
give me this really ugly bar chart.
So, it's like really ugly blue bar chart.
>> Shirley Wu: And
so what's happening here is I am.
I should probably ask, how many people
are familiar with SVG elements?
Okay, for now, we don't really need to
know how it works other than that it
pretty much works syntactically like HTML.
And these are rectangle elements,
so they would draw rectangles once
we give them the right attributes for x
and y positions and within height values.
So, that's all we need to
know about this for now.
So, this is my code.
And then, you know,
I have SVG declared and I have five
rectangle elements that I've created.
And right here, I'm using D3 to select
all the rectangle elements that
already exist in the dom.
>> Shirley Wu: And
with d3.selectall I can use any sort
of like, basically any CSS selector and
it will just go through, and grab
everything that matches on the screen.
We can also use d3.select to just
grab the first thing that matches.
But yeah, for right now,
we're using select all rect, and
then if we console log that one line,
that d3.selectall rect, and
this is what it looks like under the hood.
And I want to start making sure
that we look at how it looks like,
what it looks like under
the hood from the very beginning.
So essentially what a d3.selection is,
is it's an array of all of the dom
elements that you've selected.
And it's just wrapped
around in these things, and
so that you have like all of the APIs
that are available to you for selection.
So, you can use like .data.
You can use .otter, and
all of those functions are available
to you with just this.
So this is what a d3.selection looks like.
And I want to like pound that home because
I think that a lot of people think that
selections are this like mystical thing
that D3 has and you can like chain
functions on it, and they don't
quite know like what it looks like.
It's super straightforward.
It's just an array of dom elements
with some functions wrapped around it.
Nothing mystical.
And then here's what I think
a lot of the magic happens.
So there's a function called .data and
with this function,
you pass in an array of data,
so this is right here is my array of data.
>> Shirley Wu: And I'm passing it in.
And what's happening is under
the hood what d3 is doing,
is it's taking a look at all of
the rectangle elements that we've
grouped with the selection so
that's on the left hand side?
Yeah.
Hold the right angle is that we've
grouped with d3.selection and
what that data is doing is saying, hey,
this is my array of data, on this side,
and then let me just map them one to one.
>> Shirley Wu: And
then underneath the hood what's happening
here is for each of these rect elements,
d3 is literary binding your
data to the rectangle element.
With this kind of like _ _ data attribute.
And that's how,
this is pretty much the core of d3.
You take some data and
then you apply it to the like
DOM element, and
then you access it because it's literally
been bound to the element in this way.
Okay.
>> Shirley Wu: Okay,
so yeah, and then once you've bound
that to each of the elements,
you can actually use that data to kind
of specify what your element should do.
So, right here what's happening is now
that we've bound the data, I'm telling it,
hey, for each of these rectangle elements,
this is what I want my x attribute to be.
So what's happening here is,
d3 than underneath
the hood is looping through
each of the SVG elements.
And on each like, okay.
And as it loops through each
of the SVG elements it passes
in the data that's been bound
to that specific element as
well as the index of that element and
that array I showed you.
And then you basically use
a function to specify, like hey,
this is what I want to return for
this ex attribute.
So for example, I'm,
what I'm doing here is, I specify,
I think I specify like erect
with 50 pixels and I say,
just use the index of that SVG element,
and multiply it by 50.
So then what that means is as
it loops through, the rectangle elements,
the bars,
are laid out nicely across the screen.
Yeah, question?
>> Audience 1: Yes,
I have two questions.
>> Shirley Wu: Okay.
>> Audience 1: Kendall B asks,
those arrow functions, will that
prevent it from running on browsers
without ES6 support?
>> Shirley Wu: Ooh, so
this is just me being lazy.
You can definitely use just
like none ES6 functions and
yeah, it like d3 does
not require L functions.
This is just me being
lazy with my code and
trying to conserve space, yeah [LAUGH].
>> Audience 1: That's excellent and
then the second question is from lock in.
What if there's more rectangle elements or
if there's more
data than the rectangles that you have?
>> Shirley Wu: Absolutely
excellent question.
We're getting there.
So, I'm just giving you the most
simple straight forward and then,
we'll build up to it.
Yes, so right now lets just
only consider when data and
the DOM elements are mapped one to one.
So, yeah.
>> Shirley Wu: So,
we were talking about looping through that
each of these functions are essentially
underneath the hood.
Looping through each of the elements,
and then [COUGH] applying the value that
you basically have returned with
the function that you've passed in.
So to kind of drive that point home,
this is a really,
really tiny screen shot
of the console log,
and this is just basically
me console logging in here.
What the index is?
What the data is?
And basically,
all of the attributes that's been bound
to the SVG elements,
with these outer functions.
So you can see like d3 [COUGH] is looking
at the first rect and then calculating x,
y, width, height, and
then the second, the third, fourth,
and fifth, and that's how it's working
under the hood.
>> Audience 1: We have
[INAUDIBLE] a simply asks
where is racked with set?
The variable rect with?
>> Shirley Wu: I
removed that from this code piece for
like first six [INAUDIBLE].
>> Audience 1: Yes,
sure.
>> Shirley Wu: Yeah, but
this is where we get
to play with the code.
So that exact piece of code with
a rect with is included in this block.
So, let's take about five minutes to
kind of play with this piece of code,
change around numbers,
change around the data, add or
remove a rectangle if you want to, but
make sure to console log all the things,
and open up the arrays as you console log,
and
kind of dig into what's happening under
the hood, so that you can get a sense.
Yeah, five minutes.